NICK (V.O.)

In my younger and more vulnerable 
years my father gave me some 
advice: always try to see the best 
in people, he would say...

NICK (V.O.)

As a consequence, Im inclined to 
reserve all judgements. 

NICK (V.O.)

But even I... have a limit.

NICK (V.O.)

Back then all of us drank too much.

NICK (V.O.)

The more in tune with the times we 
were, the more we drank. 

NICK (V.O.)

And none of us contributed anything 
new.

NICK

When I came back from New York I 
was disgusted.

NICK (CONTD)

Disgusted... with everyone, and 
everything... Only one man was 
exempt from my disgust.

DOCTOR

One man...? Mr. Carraway?

NICK
(whispers)

Gatsby...

DOCTOR 

Was he a friend of yours?

NICK

He was... the single most hopeful 
person I have ever met... And am 
ever likely to meet again. There 
was something about him...

NICK (CONTD)

A sensitivity. He was like one of 
those machines that register 
earthquakes ten thousand miles 
away... 

DOCTOR

Where did you meet him?

NICK

At a party. In New York.

NICK (V.O.)

In the summer of 1922, the tempo of 
the city approached hysteria... 

NICL (V.O.)

Stocks hit record peaks. And Wall 
Street boomed, in a steady golden 
roar...

NICK (V.O.)

The parties were bigger; the shows 
were broader; the buildings were 
higher; the morals were looser; and 
the ban on alcohol had backfired... 
making the liquor cheaper.

NICK (V.O.)

Wall Street was luring the young 
and ambitious.

NICK (V.O.)

And I was one of them. 

NICK (V.O.)

I rented a house twenty miles from 
the city, on Long Island.

NICK (V.O.)
I lived at West Egg...

NICK (V.O.)

...in a forgotten grounds-keepers 
cottage squeezed among the mansions 
of the newly rich.

NICK (V.O.)

To get started, I bought a dozen 
volumes on credit, banking and 
investments--

NICK (V.O.)

All new to me...

RADIO VOICE

The stock market hit another record 
high today!

CLERK 1 (INTO PHONE)

Its like pickin up money in the 
street!

CLERK 2 (INTO PHONE)

I got a dandy tip on Burlington; 
whos comin with me?!

NICK (INTO PHONE)

Yes sir, of course nothing is one 
hundred percent. Well, I wouldnt 
go investing every penny. But...

NICK (V.O.)

At Yale, Id dreamed of being a 
writer.

NICK (V.O.)

But I gave all that up.

NICK (V.O.)

With the sun shining and the great 
bursts of leaves on the trees, I 
planned to spend the summer 
studying.

NICK (V.O.)

And I probably would have--

NICK (V.O.)

Were it not for the riotous 
amusements that beckoned from 
beyond the walls of that colossal 
castle... 

NICK (V.O.)

Owned by a gentleman I had not yet 
met, named...

NICK

Gatsby.

DOCTOR

So... He was your neighbor?

NICK

My neighbor? No, Gatsby was-- Well-- 
If I think about it... The history 
of the summer really began the 
night I drove over to my cousin 
Daisys for dinner...

NICK (V.O.)

She lived across the bay...

NICK (V.O.)
In old money East Egg.

NICK (V.O.)

Her husband was heir to one of 
Americas wealthiest families.

NICK (V.O.)

His name was Tom Buchanan.

NICK (V.O.)

When we were at Yale together hed 
been a sporting star.

NICK (V.O.)

But now his glory days were behind 
him and he contented himself 
with... other affairs.

TOM (INTO PHONE)

I thought I told you not to call me 
here...!

TOM (CONTD)

Shakespeare! Hows the great 
American novel coming...?

NICK

Oh, Im selling bonds now Tom... 
with Walter Chases outfit--

TOM

Never heard of em.

TOM (CONTD)

Hey! What say after dinner we go 
into town? 

NICK

Cant--

TOM

Catch up with the old wolf pack?

NICK

Big day on the new job tomorrow--

TOM

Nonsense! Were going.

TOM

First team, all-American! 

TOM (CONTD)

You see? Made me who I am today. 

TOM (CONTD)

Here-- Forest Hills... I played the 
Prince of Wales. What a sissy! 

TOM (CONTD)

Lifes something you dominate Nick.

TOM (CONTD)

If youre any good. 

TOM (CONTD)

Ha-ha-ha!

DAISY (O.S.)

Oh Nicky... Is that you my lovely?

NICK (V.O.)

Daisy Buchanan. The golden girl. A 
breathless warmth flowed from her. 
A promise that there was no one 
else in the world she so wanted to 
see...

DAISY

Do they miss me in Chicago?

NICK

Oh, yes. About a dozen people send 
their love.

DAISY

(unimpressed)

How gorgeous.

NICK

Theyre absolutely in mourning... 
Theyre crying...

DAISY

No--

NICK

Theyre wailing...

DAISY

No--

NICK

Theyre screaming, theyre 
shouting...

DAISY

No--

NICK

Daisy Buchanan, we cant live 
without you! 

DAISY

I'm p-paralyzed with happiness...!

DAISY (CONTD)

Jordan Baker; a very famous golfer.

NICK (V.O.)

She was the most frightening person 
Id ever seen--

NICK

Ive seen your face on the cover of 
Sporting Life. Nick Carraway...

NICK (V.O.)

But I enjoyed looking at her.

JORDAN

I've been lying on that sofa for as 
long as I can remember...

DAISY

I know! This summer I'll sort of, 
fling you and Jordan together...

DAISY (CONTD)

Ill push you into linen closets, 
and out to sea in boats...

JORDAN

Im not listening to a word!

Nick, Daisy tells me youre over at 
West Egg; 

TOM

(MORE)

TOM (CONT'D)

throwing your lot in with those 
social-climbing, primitive New 
Money types...?

NICK

Well, my little shack is cardboard 
box at eighty a month.

DAISY

Your life is adorable.

JORDAN

I know somebody in West Egg.

NICK

I don't know a single--

JORDAN

Oh, you must know Gatsby.

DAISY

Gatsby? 

What Gatsby...?

DAISY (CONTD)

HENRI

Madame, le diner est servi!

DAISY

Would you like to hear a family 
secret? Its about the butlers 
nose...

JORDAN

Things went from bad to worse...

DAISY

Nicky... I heard a rumor, that you 
were getting married to a girl out 
west...

NICK

Its a libel, Im too poor.

JORDAN

They have to be old so they die 
quickly...

NICK

Cant we talk about something else? 
Anything? Crops? Youre making me 
feel uncivilized Daisy--

TOM

Civilization's going to pieces! 
Have you read 'The Rise of the 
Colored Empires' by this fellow 
Goddard?

NICK

Why no...

TOM

Everyone ought to read it. The idea 
is that its up to us, the dominant 
race, to watch out, or these other 
races... 

TOM (CONTD)

Will have control of things. 

DAISY

(wickedly)

Toms been very profound lately. He 
reads deep books with long words in 
them

TOM

Its been proved. Its scientific.

DAISY

(subtly mocking Tom)

Weve got to beat them down.

TOM

Excuse me... Ill be right back.

DAISY

Im sorry...

NICK

Well, this Mr. Gatsby you spoke of 
is my neighbor... 

JORDAN

Shhhh... Dont talk. I want to hear 
what happens.

NICK

Is something happening?

JORDAN

I thought everybody knew.

NICK

I dont.

JORDAN

Tom's got some woman in New York.

NICK
Got some woman?

JORDAN

She might have the decency not to 
telephone at dinner-time... Dont 
you think?

DAISY

(a tense gayety)

I just love seeing you at my table 
Nicky. You remind me of a rose, an 
absolute rose... Doesnt he?

NICK

Im not even faintly like a rose--

TOM

So... After dinner Nick wanted to 
go into town. Right Nick? To the 
Yale club. 

DAISY

Nicky, stay--

NICK

I have to work early.

TOM

Nonsense. Its only for a drink or 
two.

NICK (V.O.)

None of us could ignore that fifth 
guests shrill metallic urgency...

DAISY

Oh Nicky...

NICK

What?

DAISY

Its just, well, you see, I think 
everythings terrible anyhow. You 
know Ive been everywhere and seen 
everything and done everything, and 
Ive had very bad time Nicky... Im 
pretty cyncical about everything.

NICK 

Your daughter; I suppose she talks, 
and... eats, and everything?

DAISY
Pammy? Oh yes...

DAISY (CONTD)

Listen Nick, when she was born, Tom 
was God knows where - with God 
knows whom - and I asked the nurse 
if it was a boy or a girl. She told 
me it was a girl, and I wept. 'All 
right,' I said, 'I'm glad it's a 
girl. And I hope she'll be a fool - 
that's the best thing a girl can be 
in this world, a beautiful little 
fool.

DAISY (CONTD)

All the bright precious things fade 
so fast...

DAISY (CONTD)
And they dont come back.

NICK (V.O.)

When I arrived home I noticed that 
a figure had emerged on my 
neighbors dock.

NICK (V.O.)

And something told me it was... Mr. 
Gatsby.

NICK (V.O.)

He seemed to be... reaching toward 
something out there in the dark.

The green light.

NICK

DOCTOR

Green light?

NICK

I dont want to talk about this 
Doctor.

NICK (CONTD)
I cant talk about THIS.

DOCTOR
(delicately)

Then write about it.

NICK
(skeptical)

Write?

DOCTOR

Yes. Write. 

NICK

Why would I do that?

DOCTOR

After all, you said that writing 
brought you solace, once upon a 
time.

NICK

Yeah, well. It didnt bring anyone 
else much solace... I wasnt any 
good.

DOCTOR

No one need ever read it. You can 
always burn it.

NICK

What would I write about?

DOCTOR

Anything. Whatever you cant quite 
talk about; a memory; a thought; a 
place... Write it down.

NICK

(to himself)

A place...

NICK (V.O.)

The Valley of Ashes was a grotesque 
place...

NICK (V.O.)

New Yorks dumping ground, half way 
between West Egg and the city...

NICK (V.O.)

...Where the burnt out coal that 
powered the booming, golden city 
was discarded by men who moved 
dimly and already crumbling through 
the powdery air. 

NICK (V.O.)

...This fantastic farm was ever-
watched by Dr. T. J. Eckleberg...

NICK (V.O.)

...A forgotten oculist whose eyes 
brooded over it all like the eyes 
of God.

NICK (V.O.)

Tom had invited me to town, on the 
pretense of a lunch at the Yale 
Club.... 

NICK (V.O.)

But the day took an unexpected 
turn...

TOM

Come on--!

NICK (O.S.)

What are we doing?

TOM

Trust me!

NICK

Wait a second would you!?

TOM

(calls back)

Dominate Nick! Dominate!

Hello Wilson! How's business?

TOM

WILSON

(unconvincing)

I can't complain. When are you 
going to sell me that car?

TOM

I've got my man working on it.

WILSON

Works pretty slow, don't he?

TOM

(coldly)

Maybe I'd better sell it somewhere 
else?

WILSON

I don't mean that, I just...

MYRTLE

If its business youre talking, you 
should be talking to me... 

(to her husband)

Get some chairs why don't you; so 
somebody can sit down...

MYRTLE (CONTD)

(without turning)

Hurry up!

WILSON

Oh, sure... Sure...

TOM

Mrs. Wilson... Nick Carraway.

MYRTLE

A pleasure...

TOM

Nicks a writer...

NICK

(feeble)

Im in bonds, actually...

TOM

(intently to Myrtle)

Get on the next train.

MYRTLE 

(playing hard to get)

Now...? Are we gettin that dog?

TOM

Whatever you want. And you can call 
up your sister...

(glancing to Nick)

Shell like him...

NICK

Oh no, thats alright, Im busy... 

MYRTLE

Catherines said to be very good 
looking, by people who oughta know. 

NICK

Really I cant...

TOM

(whispers to Nick)

Do you want to embarrass Myrtle...? 
Thats rude.

CATHERINE

Im Catherine; aint we havin a 
party?

NICK

Oh, Im... Im not sure nows a 
good time-- I was just going--

MRS. MCKEE

Hello...!

MR. MCKEE

(extending his hand)

Chester McKee, pleasure to meet 
you.

NICK
Nick Carraway.

MRS. MCKEE

Wherere the kids?

CATHERINE

Whats the matter? Dont ya like 
me?

MRS. MCKEE

Myrtle Turtle...! Oh, that dress is 
adorable!

MYRTLE

(with impressive hauteur)

It's just a crazy old thing. I slip 
it on when I don't care what I look 
like!

TOM

Get some ice Myrtle, before 
everyone goes to sleep.

NICK

(making for the door)

Tom, I really should be going...

TOM

(grabbing Nicks arm)

Nonsense... 

NICK

Tom; I dont think-- Daisys my--

TOM

Listen Nick, you like to watch; I 
remember that from college. And 
thats OK, I make no judgment; but 
weve got a whole summer - do you 
want to sit on the sideline and 
watch, or do you want to play ball?

CATHERINE

Yeah. Aint we good enough for ya?

CATHERINE (CONTD)

Take off yer hat and stay awhile...

TOM

Hey Nick! McKees in the artistic 
game.

MCKEE

Photography.

TOM

Nicks artistic.

No...

Really?

NICK

MCKEE

NICK

Ah, no, well, I write a little...

CATHERINE

Do you live on Long Island, too?

I live at West Egg.

NICK

CATHERINE

Really? I was there at a party 
about a month ago. At a man named 
Gatsby's. Do you know him? 

NICK

I live right next door to him...

CATHERINE

He's a cousin of Kaiser Wilhelm's. 
You know, the evil German king...

TOM

Hey McKee, take a picture of that!

MYRTLE

(girlish glee)

Oh, dont! 

(MORE)

MYRTLE (CONT'D)

Im not one of those models...! But 
you can if you want...

CATHERINE

Neither of them can stand who 
they're married to. 

NICK

Doesnt she like Wilson either?

MYRTLE

(overhears)

...Hes a greasy little scumbag!

CATHERINE

No thanks; I feel just as good on 
nothing at all...

CATHERINE (CONTD)

Nerve pills, I get them from a 
doctor in Queens. You want one?

NICK

My nerves are fine thanks...

NICK (V.O.)

I had been drunk just twice in my 
life and the second time was that 
afternoon...

NICK (V.O.)

That night, in the hidden flat that 
Tom kept for Myrtle, we were buoyed 
by a sort of chemical madness, a 
willingness of the heart that burst 
thunderously upon us all... And 
suddenly, I began to like New York.

MYRTLE

...I've got to get a massage, and a 
wave, and a collar for the dog, and 
one of those cute little ash-trays 
where you touch a spring, and a 
wreath with a black silk bow for 
mother's grave!

MYRTLE (CONTD)

My dear I'm giving you this dress! 

MRS. MCKEE

Adorable! Adorable!

NICK (V.O.)

High over the city our yellow 
windows must have contributed their 
share of human secrets to the 
casual watcher in the street...

NICK (V.O.)

...and I was him too, looking up 
and wondering...

NICK (V.O.)

I was within and without; enchanted 
and repelled by the inexhaustible 
variety of life...

TOM

Youve got no right to speak her 
name!

MYRTLE

Daisy! Daisy! Daisy! I'll speak it 
whenever I want! Daisy! Dai--

NICK

I have no clue how I got home.

NICK (V.O.)

But I do know that I awoke with a 
distinctly uneasy feeling...

NICK (V.O.)

....that Gatsby was watching me.

DOCTOR

(slightly incredulous)

Watching you...?

NICK

Yes. He was watching me. In fact, I 
know now that Gatsby was always 
watching me...

DOCTOR

And how do you know that?

NICK

Because I got an invitation... I 
was the only one. 

NICK(CONTD)

No one, except me, every received 
an actual invitation to Gatsbys...

NICK (V.O.)

You see, the rest of New York 
simply came, uninvited...

NICK (V.O.)

The whole city packed into 
automobiles and all weekend, every 
weekend, ended up at Gatsbys...

NICK (V.O.)

And I mean everyone: from every 
walk of life, from every corner of 
New York City, this kaleidoscopic 
carnival spilled through Gatsbys 
door... 

NICK (V.O)

A caravansary of...

NICK (V.O.)

Billionaire play-boy publishers, 
and their blond nurses... Heiresses 
comparing inheritances on Gatsbys 
beach... My boss, Walter Chase, 
losing money at the roulette 
tables... Gossip columnists... 
Alongside gangsters and governors 
exchanging telephone numbers... 
Silent film stars... Broadway 
directors... Morality protectors... 
Casino collectors... 

(MORE)

NICK (V.O.) (CONT'D)
Underage hecklers... And Ewing 
Klipspringer, dubious descendent of 
Beethoven!

NICK 

(to the bartender)

Do you know where I might find the 
host, Mr. Gatsby?

NICK (CONTD)
I live just next door...

BARTENDER

Mr. Gatsby? Ive never seen him 
sir. Why, no one has...

NICK (V.O.)

Alone, and a little embarrassed, I 
decided to get... roaring drunk.

NICK

Wow.

VOICE 

I thought I might see you here...

NICK

Hello.

JORDAN

I remembered you lived next door...

NICK

Its like... an amusement park.

JORDAN

Shall we?

NICK

Did you get an invitation?

JORDAN

People arent invited to Gatsbys.

NICK 

Well I was... I seem to be the only 
one. Who is this Gatsby?

TEDDY

He was a German spy during the war. 

JORDAN

Teddy Barton. Nick Carraway.

NICK
(to Teddy)

A German spy...? 

NELSON

No, no, no, no. Hes the Kaisers 
assassin.

LANGUID GIRL

I heard he killed a man once. 

NELSON

Its true!

LANUID GIRL

You look at him sometimes when he 
thinks no ones watching... Ill 
bet he killed a man.

TEDDY

Kills for fun! Free of charge.

NELSON

Well hes already richer than God.

NICK

You dont believe he killed a man 
do you...?

JORDAN 

(wickedly)

Lets go find him, and you can ask 
him yourself... 

JORDAN

Oh, Mr. Gatsby...! 

(to Nick)

Shall I lead you into his clutches?

OWL EYES

You wont find him...!

OWL EYES (CONTD)

This house and everything in it, 
are all part of an elaborate 
disguise. But Mr. Gatsby doesnt 
exist. 

JORDAN

Phooey; Ive met him!

OWL EYES

Which one; the Prince, the Spy, the 
Murderer? Ive been wandering his 
halls drunk for about a week now - 
but no matter where I look, I cant 
find anyone who knows anything real 
about Mr. Gatsby.

JORDAN

(blithely dismissive)

Well I dont care; he gives large 
parties - and I like large parties, 
theyre so intimate; at small 
parties there isn't any privacy.

NICK

(slowly to Owl Eyes)

But if thats true; whats all this 
for...?

OWL EYES

That, my dear fellow, is the 
question...

NICK

I didnt expect all this...

JORDAN

(coy)

What did you expect? 

NICK
I dont know...

JORDAN

Disappointed?

NICK

Not in the slightest...

TEDDY

(to Nick)

Penny-less pantywaist!

TEDDY (CONTD)

Im stealing her away Carraway!

ORCHESTRA LEADER

Ladies and gentlemen, please make 
your way to the grand terrazzo; for 
the premiere of Mr. Vladimir 
Tostoff's A Jazz History of the 
World, and accompanying fireworks!

TEDDY

Look around you! Rich girls dont 
marry poor boys--

MAN

Your face is familiar. Weren't you 
in the Third Division during the 
war?

NICK

Yes; The Ninth Battalion.

MAN

I was in the Seventh. I knew I'd 
seen you somewhere before... Having 
a good time, old sport? 

NICK

(very tipsy)

The whole things incredible - I 
live next door...

(brandishing his now 
crumpled invitation)

He even sent me an invitation, but 
I still havent met Mr. Gatsby, no 
ones met him; they say hes third 
cousin to the Kaiser and second 
cousin to the devil!

MAN

Im afraid Im not a very good 
host, old sport... Im Gatsby.

NICK

(muttering apologies)

Oh.. Im very sorry-- I... Ive had 
so much to drink...

GATSBY

(apologetically)

I thought you knew, old sport.

NICK (V.O.)

His smile was one of those rare 
smiles that you may come across 
four or five times in life. It 
seemed to understand you and 
believe in you just as you would 
like to be understood and believed 
in.

HERZOG

Excuse me sir; Chicago on the wire.

GATSBY

Im trying out my new hydroplane in 
the morning. Want to go with me, 
old sport? 

NICK

What time?

GATSBY

Any time that suits you.

GATSBY (CONTD)

Lovely to see you Miss Baker. 

GATSBY (CONTD)

(to Nick)

If you need anything, just ask for 
it, old sport. I will rejoin you 
later... Excuse me.

NICK

I expected him to be...

JORDAN

Old and fat?

NICK

Well, yes; young men dont just 
drift coolly out of nowhere and buy 
a palace on Long Island. 

JORDAN

He told me once he was an Oxford 
man. However, I don't believe it...

NICK

Why not?

JORDAN

I dont know... I just dont 
believe he went there...

HERZOG

I beg your pardon...

HERZOG (CONTD)

Miss Baker; Mr. Gatsby would like 
to speak to you... Alone.

JORDAN

(surprised)

Me?

HERZOG

Yes, madame.

JORDAN

Nick! Nick! I've just heard the 
most shocking thing; it all makes 
sense...

TEDDY

Where have you been!? The cars 
waiting!

JORDAN

Simply amazing! It all makes sense. 
It all makes sense...

NICK

What makes sense...? 

JORDAN

Everything... But here I am 
tantalizing you...

JORDAN (CONTD)

And I swore I wouldnt tell.

NICK

But...

JORDAN

Nick. Im sorry, I swore I wouldnt 
tell.

GATSBY

Sorry to keep her from you, old 
sport. Don't forget; we're going up 
in the hydroplane tomorrow morning.

HERZOG

Philadelphia on the phone, sir.

GATSBY

Good night, old sport... 

NICK

Good night. Thank you.

OWL EYES

Whazza matter!? We run outta gas!?

JORDAN

Come and see me... Well have tea! 
Im in the phone-book!

NICK (V.O)

We rode in the hydroplane... And I 
attended two more of his parties, 
even made use of his beach. But I 
soon realized that I knew 
absolutely nothing about Gatsby at 
all, until...

GATSBY

Its pretty isnt it, old sport...? 
Havent you seen it before? Its all 
a custom job. Supercharged engine. 
Get dressed... Were having lunch!

GATSBY

Ah... well... Ah... Look here, old 
sport... What's your opinion of me, 
anyhow?

NICK
My... opinion?

GATSBY

Yes, yes, your opinion!

GATSBY (CONTD)

I don't want you to get the wrong 
impression from all those bizarre 
accusations you must be hearing. A 
pack of lies I assure you. Youve 
heard the stories...?

NICK

Well--

GATSBY

Ill tell you Gods truth. Gods 
truth about myself!

(raises right hand)

I am the son of some very wealthy 
people from the Middle-West; sadly, 
all dead now... I was brought up in 
America, but educated at Oxford; 
because all my ancestors have been 
educated there for many years. You 
see, its a... a family tradition.

NICK (V.O.)

The way he spoke... No wonder 
people thought he was lying...

GATSBY

After that I lived like a young 
Prince in all the capitals of 
Europe!

NICK

Europe?

GATSBY

Yes, Europe! Paris; Venice; Rome; 
Vienna, Zurich, Helsinki... 
Collecting jewels, chiefly rubies, 
hunting big game, painting, a 
little, things for myself mostly, 
and trying to forget something very 
sad that happened to me long ago...

GATSBY

Then came the war, old sport... 

NICK (V.O.)

Just when I thought it couldnt be 
any more fantastical...

GATSBY

It was a great relief and I tried 
very hard to die, but I seemed to 
bear an enchanted life...

NICK (V.O.)

He became a war hero, single-
handedly defeating the German army!

GATSBY

In the Argonne Forest I took my 
machine gun detachment so far 
forward... We were outnumbered five 
to one. There was a half mile gap 
on either side of us where the 
infantry couldnt advance.  We 
stayed there two days and two 
nights, 130 men with only 16 Lewis 
guns...

GATSBY (CONTD)

...When the infantry came up at 
last they found the insignia of 3 
German divisions among the piles of 
the dead.

GATSBY (CONTD)

I was promoted to Major and every 
Allied government gave me a 
decoration; even Montenegro! Little 
Montenegro down on the Adriatic 
Sea.

GATSBY (CONTD)
Here! Thats the one from 
Montenegro.

GATSBY (CONTD)

Turn it.

NICK

(reads)

Major Jay Gatsby. For Valor 
Extraordinary.

GATSBY

Thats right.

GATSBY (CONTD)

Heres another thing that I always 
carry. A souvenir of my Oxford 
days; the man on my left is now the 
Earl of Doncaster.

NICK (V.O.)

What could I say...? The photograph 
was undoubtedly authentic. Could it 
all be true?

GATSBY (O.S.)

But dont take my word for it. At 
lunch, Im going to introduce you 
to one of New Yorks most 
distinguished businessmen; my 
friend, Mr. Meyer Wolfsheim, who 
will confirm all Ive told you, and 
vouch for my good character...

NICK

Im sure thats not necessary...

GATSBY

Oh but it is though...! You see, I 
thought you ought to know something 
about my life. I... I dont want 
you to think Im just some... some 
nobody. You see, old sport, Im 
going to make a very big request of 
you today. 

NICK
A big request?

GATSBY

Yes. Yes... Miss Baker will explain 
everything when you take her to tea 
this afternoon.

NICK

(caught off guard)

Jordan...? Whats she got to do 
with it?

GATSBY

Oh, I assure you its nothing 
underhand. Miss Bakers an honest 
sportswoman; shed never do 
anything that wasnt alright...

COP

Pull over!!! Pull over to the curb!

GATSBY

(calmly)

All right, old sport! Alright. 

COP

(embarrassed)

Right you are... Know you next 
time, Mr. Gatsby. Excuse me!

NICK

One of your old Oxford pals?

GATSBY

Well... actually, I was able to do 
the Commissioner a favor once; he 
sends a Christmas card every year.

(adds proudly)

I imagine hell be at lunch too...

NICK

By the time we reached the bridge I 
was impossibly confused...

NICK (V.O.)

I didnt know what to think... But
the city seen from the Queensboro 
Bridge is always the city seen for 
the first time, in its first wild 
promise of all the mystery and the 
beauty in the world. Anything can 
happen now that we've slid over 
this bridge, I thought; anything at 
all...

NICK (V.O.)

Even Gatsby could happen...

WOLFSHEIM

Ah my boy...! 

GATSBY

Meyer, Meyer...

WOLFSHEIM

You smell so good.

GATSBY

Mr. Carraway; my friend, Mr. 
Wolfsheim.

WOLFSHEIM

A wonderful pleasure, Mr. Carraway.  
I know all about you.

NICK

Really?

WOLD

Of course! Mr. Gatsby is always 
talking about you. 

WOLFSHEIM

(sinister)

Come, join us for a little lunch...

WOLFSHEIM

(whispers to Gatsby)

Tell Walter Chase; he shuts his 
mouth or he doesnt get a penny...

GATSBY

Well talk about that later...

HEAD WAITER
Highballs, Mr. Gatsby?

GATSBY

Yes, highballs it is. 

(points to Nick)

You take good care of my friend 
here!

COMMISSIONER

Hey Jay...! Youre under arrest!!!

GATSBY

You be careful now. Youre turning 
into a real Jazz-Hound 
Commissioner.
(to Nick)

See, thats the Commissioner back 
there.

GATSBY (CONTD)

You be careful at those tables now 
Senator!

SENATOR GULICK

Of course! Ill put a bet on for 
you Jay!

GATSBY

Shall we order?

(to the waiter)

Lobster tails all round.

(to Nick)

They decorate it with truffle 
slices and fine herbs. Very 
artistic.

WOLFSHEIM

So... How is the bond business Mr. 
Carraway? 

NICK

Its fine, thank you.

WOLFSHEIM

I understand youre looking for a 
business gonnegtion--

GATSBY

No, no. This isn't the man. This is 
the friend I told you about. 

WOLFSHEIM

Oh! Beg your pardon, I had a wrong 
man.

GATSBY

Now, if youll excuse me. I have to 
make THAT call.

(gesturing to Nick)

Meyer, do you mind?

WOLFSHEIM

Gatsby! What a gentleman! From one 
of the finest families in the 
Midwest... Sadly all dead now. Let 
me tell you, when I made the 
pleasure of Mr. Gatsbys 
acquaintance just after the war, I 
knew I had discovered a man of fine 
breeding. A war hero! Such... 
medals. And, an Oggsford man. 
Oggsford College in England. You 
know Oggsford?

NICK

I've heard of it...

WOLFSHEIM

Then you would know that a man like 
that can be trusted. With a friend, 
with someone like you, he would 
never so much as look at your 
wife...

NICK

Im not... married.

WOLFSHEIM

But you work on Wall Street, right?

NICK

(totally confused)

Yes...

WOLFSHEIM

Looking at my tiepin?

WOLFSHEIM (CONTD)

Finest specimen of human molars...

GATSBY

Gentlemen. Everything alright...?

NICK

Oh, yes... We were just talking 
about other peoples wives...

GATSBY

(taking his seat)

Other peoples wives? Ah... I see.

GATSBY (CONTD)

Other peoples wives... Meyer?

WOLFSHEIM

Well, my work here is done. Ill 
leave you gentlemen to talk about 
your sports and your women...

GATSBY

Youll have to excuse him... In his 
old age, hes prone to digress... 
Hes a regular around here; a real 
denizen of Broadway...

NICK

Who is he anyhow?

GATSBY

Meyer? Hes a gambler.

NICK

An actor?

GATSBY

Meyer? No. Hes the man who fixed 
the 1919 World Series.

Fixed it?

Fixed it.

NICK

GATSBY

NICK

How did he manage that?

GATSBY

He just... saw the opportunity, I 
suppose. Hes a very smart man.

(tries to change subject)

Now, old sport, about Miss Baker, 
and that request we spoke of...

TOM

Hey Nick! Nick! Whereve you been!? 
Daisys furious you havent called 
up.

NICK

This is Mr. Gatsby, Mr. Buchanan.

GATSBY

Im so very, very... delighted to 
make your acquaintance.

TOM

I wouldnt have expected to find 
you in this temple of virtue. 

NICK

I'm having lunch with Mr. Gats--

NICK

Im looking for Ms. Baker. Yes. The 
famous sporting star. The golfer... 
There... Ive spotted her.

NICK (CONTD)

What game are you and Gatsby 
playing at!?

MAITRED

Will the gentleman be joining?

NICK

(frustrated)

One moment please--

JORDAN

Please, Nick, sit down. This is a 
polite restaurant.

NICK

Its all very strange. He picks me 
up in his fancy yellow car... And 
hes going on and on and on about 
his life and the war and rubies and 
Oxford and... What is--

JORDAN

If youll just have a seat-- 

NICK

What is this big request!?

JORDAN

Nick--! He just wants you to invite 
Daisy to tea.

NICK

Tea?

(not what Nick expected)

Daisy...? And Gatsby...?

NICK (CONTD)

Why?

JORDAN

Well... I dont know quite where to 
start. You see... I met Gatsby, 
five years ago, in Louisville...

JORDAN (O.S.)

It was the day I got my new English 
golf shoes.

JORDAN (O.S.) (CONTD)

Daisy was by far the most popular 
girl with the Officers from Camp 
Taylor...

JORDAN (O.S.) (CONTD)
One of them was in the car with 
her.

JORDAN (O.S.) (CONTD)

It was Gatsby. And the way he 
looked at her...

JORDAN (O.S.)

Is the way all girls want to be 
looked at.

NICK

(blown away)

So what happened? 

JORDAN

Well, I dont know... 

JORDAN (O.S.)

Gatsby was sent off to war...

JORDAN (O.S.) (CONTD)

But when the war ended... For some 
unknown reason, Gatsby couldnt 
return...

JORDAN (O.S.)

A year later, Tom Buchanan of 
Chicago swept in and stole her 
away...

JORDAN (O.S.)

He gave her a string of pearls 
worth $350,000.

JORDAN (O.S.)

But, the morning of the wedding, 
Daisy received a letter...

DAISY

(screams)

Tell them Daisys changed her mind!

JORDAN

Daisy! Please, everyones waiting!

YOUNG DAISY

Give them back!! 

DAISYS MOTHER

What on earth is going on in here!?

DAISY
Leave me alone!

DAISYS MOTHER

Jordan, run the bath! Now!

NICK (O.S.)

What was in the letter?

JORDAN (O.S.)

I dont know. She wouldnt tell me.

JORDAN (O.S.)

Anyways, that day, at five oclock, 
Daisy Faye married Tom Buchanan 
with more pomp and circumstance 
than Louisville had ever seen...

After the honeymoon, I saw them in 
Santa Barbara. It was touching, 
actually... 

JORDAN

(MORE)

JORDAN (CONT'D)

Id never seen a girl so in love 
with her husband.  

(muses cynically)

A week later, Tom crashed his car. 
The girl with him was a chambermaid 
at the Santa Barbara Hotel. It got 
into all the papers...

NICK

Its a strange coincidence, isnt 
it? Gatsbys house being just 
across the bay...

JORDAN

Its no coincidence. He bought that 
house to be near her, he threw all 
those parties hoping shed wander 
in one night. He constantly asked 
about Daisy... I was the first one 
who knew her.

NICK

All that for a girl he hasnt seen 
in five years...? And now he just 
wants me to have her for tea...?

(to himself)

The modesty of it.

JORDAN

Kind of takes your breath away, 
doesnt it?

TAXI DRIVER

Evening sweethearts! Where to?

JORDAN

Long Island, please.

NICK

And you think I should? I mean, 
does Daisy want to see Gatsby?

JORDAN

(a stern whisper)

Shes absolutely not to know. You 
are just supposed to invite her 
over so he can happen to drop by.

NICK (V.O.)

I remember feeling torn. Was it 
right to bring my cousin Daisy, a 
married woman, together with a man 
I hardly knew? 

NICK (V.O.)

When I returned home, Gatsbys was 
lit, from tower to cellar, as if 
for another wild party. But... 
There wasnt a sound.

NICK

Your place looks like the Worlds 
Fair... or Coney Island!

GATSBY

(terribly anxious)

Ah, does it? Ive... Ive just been 
glancing into some rooms... Lets 
go to Coney Island, old sport, we 
can take my car--

NICK

Its too late tonight.

GATSBY

Or we can take a plunge in the 
swimming pool? I havent made use 
of it all summer...

NICK

I must go to bed...

NICK (CONTD)

Happy to do it. Jay-- I'm going to 
call Daisy and invite her to tea.

GATSBY

Oh, thats alright. I dont want to 
put you to any trouble...

NICK

What day would suit you?

GATSBY

What day would suit you...? I dont 
want to put you to any trouble...

NICK

Day after tomorrow alright?

GATSBY

Day after tomorrow? Well, Id... 
Id want to get the grass cut.

GATSBY (CONTD)

Theres another little thing... I 
thought-- Look here, old sport-- 
You don't make much money, do you?

NICK

Not really.

GATSBY

If youll pardon my... You see, I 
carry on a little business on the 
side - a sort of sideline - you 
understand what Im saying right? 
Youre selling bonds, arent you, 
old sport?

NICK

Trying to.

GATSBY

Well, this might interest you... It 
happens to be a rather confidential 
sort of thing... But you might pick 
up a nice bit of money.

NICK

I've got my hands full. 

GATSBY

You wouldn't have to do any 
business with Wolfsheim. I assure 
you.

NICK

No, no, no... Its a favor Jay. Just 
a favor. 

NICK (CONTD)

Happy to do it.

A favor?

Yes.

GATSBY

NICK

GATSBY

Ah, right, right... Goodnight.

NICK

Goodnight.

GATSBY

One of the papers said they thought 
the rain would stop about four. I 
think it was the Journal... 

NICK

The grass looks fine.

GATSBY

Grass? 

GATSBY (CONTD)

What Grass? 

GATSBY

Have you got everything you need?

NICK

Perhaps more flowers?

GATSBY

I think they did a fine job, dont 
you?

NICK

Beautiful.

GATSBY

You think its too much?

NICK

I think its what you want.

GATSBY

I think so too... Shell be 
impressed, wont she old sport?

NICK

I am.

GATSBY

I cant wait all day. Im leaving!

NICK

Dont be silly. Its just two 
minutes to four...

GATSBY

Nobodys coming to tea. Its too 
late!

NICK

Its her.

DAISY

Is this absolutely where you live, 
my dearest one?

DAISY (CONTD)

Why did I have to come alone? Are 
you in love with me?

NICK

Thats the secret of Carraway 
Castle. 

(playing along)

Tell your chauffeur to go far away.

DAISY

Come back in an hour, Ferdie!

(grave murmur)
His name is Ferdie.

DAISY (O.S.)

Oh--! Oh, my goodness. I... I cant 
believe it. You-- Did you ransack a 
greenhouse?

DAISY
(to herself)

He is in love with me...

NICK

Thats funny.

DAISY

Whats funny?

NICK

One moment...

NICK

What are you doing?

DAISY

Im certainly glad to see you 
again.

GATSBY

Im... certainly glad to see you as 
well.

GATSBY

We've met before...

GATSBY (CONTD)

Ah... sorry...

NICK

(idiotically)

It's an old... clock.

DAISY

(desperate for small talk)

Lovely though. A lovely... clock.

DAISY (CONTD)

We haven't met for many years.

GATSBY

(an automatic reflex)
Five years next November.

NICK
(abruptly)

Tea?

GATSBY

(dying)

Thank you old sport.

DAISY

(also mortified)

Darling thank you.

NICK

I just need to... pop into town. 

GATSBY

(horrified)

Town...?

NICK

The village; I'll be right back.

GATSBY

I've got to speak to you...!

GATSBY

Oh, God! This is a mistake, a 
terrible, terrible mistake...

NICK

You're just embarrassed, that's 
all... Daisy's embarrassed too.

GATSBY

She's embarrassed?

NICK

Just as much as you are.

GATSBY

Don't talk so loud!

NICK

You're acting like a little boy! 
You're rude. Daisy's in there all 
alone and...

NICK (V.O.)

Looking over my story so far, Im 
reminded that for the second time 
that summer...

NICK (V.O.)

I was guarding other peoples 
secrets.

NICK (V.O.)

Once again I was within... 

NICK (V.O.)

And without...

NICK

Its... stopped raining.

GATSBY

Yes, it has... 
(to Daisy)

Hasnt it?

GATSBY (CONTD)

What do you think of that, Daisy? 
Come look.

DAISY

Look. Its my house. Just there 
across the bay...

GATSBY

I know. I have the same view from 
my place.

DAISY

Wheres your place?

GATSBY

Nick, I want you and Daisy both to 
see my house. Id like to show her 
around.

NICK

Are you sure you want me to come?

GATSBY

Absolutely, old sport. Absolutely. 

GATSBY

(proudly)

I had the gates brought in from a 
castle in Normandy.

DAISY

Oh, Jay...!? Its so grand!

GATSBY

Do you like it?

DAISY

I love it...! But how do you live 
here all alone?

GATSBY

I dont. I keep it always full of 
interesting, celebrated people...

GATSBY (CONTD)

My house looks well doesnt it? See 
how the whole front catches the 
light like that?

DAUSY

Come on you two! I want the royal 
tour!

GATBSY

You must understand, I like all 
things that are modern.

GATSBY

If you press this button here, the 
oranges shoot through here, are 
crushed there... The juice of 200 
oranges extracted in one hour...!

GATSBY

Its a remarkable little camera-- 
latest design.

DAISY

You do know, Im a champion golfer, 
dont you? Here, Ill show you how 
its done.

GATSBY

She looks like she could be on the 
cover of Vogue, dont you think...?

DAISY

Oh...! Its beautiful.

GATSBY

Its a custom Wurlitzer.

DAISY

Can anyone play it?

GATSBY

Klipspringer can. 

(to his footmen)

Someone wake Ewing!

DAISY

Music! And we can dance all night!

GATSBY

Ewings a symphonic genius, he can 
play anything...!

DAISY

Then I demand a Charleston!

GATSBY

(as if in a dream)

She makes it look so splendid, 
dont you think old sport? 

GATSBY

I've got a man in England who buys 
me clothes...!

GATSBY (CONTD)
Something for the lady...

DAISY

Ive never seen anything like it!

GATSBY

He sends over a selection at the 
beginning of each season... 

DAISY

Jay!

GATSBY

These are silk! Linen! Indian 
flannel! Egyptian cotton!

DAISY

No, Jay... youll ruin them!

(to Nick)

Nicky! Hes a madman!

GATSBY

What is it?

DAISY

Its just... It makes me sad, 
because...

GATSBY

Why?

DAISY

...because...

NICK (V.O.)

Five lost years struggled on 
Daisys lips. But all she could 
manage was...

DAISY

Its just... Because I've never 
seen such beautiful shirts before.

GATSBY

If it wasn't for the mist we could 
see the green light... 

DAISY

What green light?

GATSBY

The one that burns all night at the 
end of your dock.

NICK (V.O.)

Possibly, it had occurred to Gatsby 
that the colossal significance of 
that light had vanished forever. 
Now, it was once again just a green 
light on a dock. His count of 
enchanted objects had diminished by 
one.

NICK

Who's this? Your father?

GATSBY

No, no.. Thats Mr. Dan Cody, old 
sport... He's dead now. He used to 
be my best friend years ago.

DAISY

(teases)

You never told me you had a 
pompadour... or a yacht.

GATSBY

I want to show you something... 
Look, here's a lot of clippings, 
about you.

DAISY

(touched)

You saved my letters...

GATSBY

This was my first photo of you.

DAISY (V.O.)

We cant lose each other and let all 
this glorious love end in nothing. 
Come home, Ill be here waiting and 
hoping, for every long dream of you 
to come true... Come home Jay...

GATSBY

Excuse me.

GATSBY (INTO PHONE) (CONTD)

Well I can't talk now old sport...

GATSBY (INTO PHONE) (CONTD)

 I said a small town.

GATSBY (INTO PHONE) (CONTD)

He must know what a small town is.

GATSBY (INTO PHONE) (CONTD)

(frightening)

Well, he's no use to us if Detroit 
is his idea of a small town...

GATSBY (CONTD)

Ah, Klipspringer! He must be awake! 
Shall we?

DAISY

(whispers)

I wish I had done everything on 
earth with you. All my life. 

DAISY (CONTD)

I wish that it could always be like 
this...

GATSBY

It will be...

NICK (V.O.)

If only it had been enough for 
Gatbsy, just to hold Daisy... 

NICK (V.O.)

But he had a grand vision for his 
life, and Daisys part in it.

NICK (V.O.)

It wasnt until the end of that 
summer, on the last night I saw 
Gatsby, that he told me of the life 
he had dreamt for himself since he 
was a boy...

NICK 

You see doctor... Gatsbys real 
name was... James Gatz.

NICK (V.O.)

His parents were dirt-poor farmers 
from North Dakota...

NICK (V.O.)

But he never accepted them as his 
parents at all.

NICK (V.O.)

In his own imagination, he was... a 
Son of God...

NICK (V.O.)

Destined for future glory...

NICK (V.O.)

Chasing this destiny, a sixteen 
year old Gatz ran far, far away.

NICK (V.O.)

One afternoon, off the coast of 
Lake Superior, he spotted a yacht 
in peril...

NICK

He rowed out and rescued the 
vessel, and its captain, alcoholic 
millionaire Dan Cody...

CODY

Whadzamatta...? 

YOUNG GATSBY

Sir! The shoal heres real bad, 
this wind could drag you onto it...

Whaderathinkyerdoin..., old sport?

CODY

NICK (V.O.)

This was his opportunity, and he 
seized it.

GATSBY (VOICE)

I decided right then and there to 
call myself: Jay Gatsby.

NICK (V.O.)

He sailed the yacht out of danger - 
and into his future...

NICK (V.O.)

Gatsby showed skill and ambition, 
and for five years they sailed the 
world...

GATSBY (VOICE)

He was alright, old Dan, he taught 
me everything...

NICK (V.O.)

How to dress, act, and speak like a 
gentleman...

YOUNG GATSBY

Gatsby. Jay Gatsby. A pleasure to 
meet you, sir. Gatsby. Jay Gatsby. 
Gatsby. Jay Gatsby.

YOUNG GATSBY

She looks well, doesnt she...!? 
Old sport.

NICK (V.O.)

Gatsby hoped to inherit Codys 
fortune... But when Cody died, 
Gatsby was cheated out of his 
inheritance by Codys family... 
Hed been left with an ability to 
play the gentleman, but he was once 
again dirt poor.

NICK (V.O.)

By midsummer Gatsby was front page 
news...

NICK (V.O.)

Where did the money comes from?

NICK (V.O.)

Thats what all of New York wanted 
to know. And it was the same 
question on Toms mind when he 
accompanied Daisy to one of 
Gatsbys glittering parties...

GATSBY

Weve got a great band here. Have a 
look around... Excuse me...

TOM

(mutters to Daisy)

A lot of these newly rich people 
are just filthy bootleggers.

DAISY

Not Gatsby. Hes a businessman.

TOM

(snorts)

Hah! A businessman...

DAISY

He owned a lot of drug stores.

GATSBY

May I introduce Senator Gulick? 
This is Mr. Carraway and Mrs. 
Buchanan...

DAISY

Delighted...

GATSBY

And Mr. Buchanan...

(a moment's hesitation)

The polo player.

TOM

(objecting quickly)

Oh no. Not me.

SENATOR GULICK
(shaking hands, nods)

Always a pleasure to meet a 
Buchanan.

TOM

Id rather not be the polo player.

DAISY

Oh Tom... You should be proud of 
your achievements.

GATSBY

(to the group)

May I show you around?

GATSBY (CONTD)

You must see the faces of a lot of 
people youve heard of.

DAISY

Absolutely!

TOM

(scoffs)

We dont go around very much. I 
dont think I recognize a single 
person...

GATSBY

Perhaps you know that lady there? 

DAISY

(taking Gatsbys arm)

Its Marlene Moon... I adore her 
pictures...

TOM

Id really rather not be the polo 
player...

DAISY

(to Nick)

These things excite me so... 

GATSBY

I believe weve met somewhere 
before, Mr. Buchanan. About a month 
ago.

TOM

Thats right... And you were with 
Nick here. At the barbershop...

GATSBY

Thats right. See... I know your 
wife.

TOM

Is that so?

GATSBY

Yes.

HERZOG

Mr. Gatsby sir. Mr. Slagle is 
here...

GATSBY

Not now.

TRIMALCHIO

And now...! Dice, Brass Knuckles 
and Guitars, with: The Foxtrot!

GATSBY

Mr. Buchanan, would you mind, 
terribly?

TOM

Of course not; I think I can keep 
myself amused.

DAISY

In case you need to take down any 
addresses...

DAISY

Is all this made entirely from your 
own imagination? 

GATSBY

No... You see you were there all 
along, in every idea, in every 
decision... Of course, if anything 
is not to your liking, we can 
change it...

DAISY

Its perfect. From your perfect, 
irresistible imagination...

TOM

I wonder where the devil he met 
Daisy...?

TOM (CONTD)

(to Nick)

Ill find you...

TOM

Have you seen my wife...?

NICK

(lies)

Ah... no... Not for awhile.

TOM

Thats funny. The Senator said he 
saw her down here.

DAISY

I... I wish we could just run away.

GATSBY

Run away? Darling, no. Daisy, 
that... that wouldnt be... 
respectable. 

TOM

(quizzically)

You live near here Nick...?

NICK
Just next door.

TOM

That so...?

GATSBY

Were going to live here, in this 
house, together. You and me... 
Daisy... Its time for you to tell 
Tom.

TOM

(pure disdain)

What a circus... Well, if you see 
her, Ill be looking for her. You 
tell her.

DAISY

Remember how much fun we used to 
have? Why cant we just have fun 
like that again?

DAISY (CONTD)

Oh hello Nicky; were having a row.

NICK

What about?

DAISY

About things... About the future... 

(trying to be funny)

The future of the Colored Empires.

NICK

Well, its Tom. Hes wandering 
around the party looking for you.

HERZOG

Sir; its Mr. Slagle; hes quite... 
emotional.

GATSBY

Excuse me. Nick, would you mind?

NICK (V.O.)

Gatsby disappeared to deal with a 
dispute of some sort. Daisy 
waited...

NICK

But Gatsby was unable to return.

WOLFSHEIM

When these hot headed types appear, 
I rely on you... But you were not 
available.. A scene was made... 
Whats going on with you Jay?

TOM

Where were you?

DAISY

With Nicky. Mr. Gatsby was showing 
us the grounds.

TOM

Well, he certainly must have 
strained himself to get that 
menagerie together...

TOM (O.C.) (CONTD)

Id like to know who he is and what 
he does. And I think Ill make a 
point of finding out.

NICK

Well there you are...! Daisy just 
left... But she asked me to tell 
you. She had a wonderful time...

GATSBY

She didnt like it.

NICK

Of course she did.

GATSBY

No, she didnt like it. She did not 
have a good time. I feel so far 
away from her now. Its hard to 
make her understand.

NICK

You mean about the party?

The party!? I couldnt care less 
about the parties! You see... 

(shocking intensity)

GATSBY

(MORE)

GATSBY (CONT'D)

She has to tell Tom that she never 
loved him. 

NICK

What...? 

GATSBY

Yes. Then we can go back to 
Louisville, to her parents house - 
her parents are lovely people old 
sport - well be married there... 
You see, Daisy and I are going to 
and start over, just as if it were 
five years ago. 

NICK

I wouldnt ask too much of her... 

GATSBY

Ask too much? 

NICK

No.

GATSBY

I beg your pardon old sport. Its 
just.. Its so sad because its so 
hard to make her understand, and--

NICK

Jay... You cant repeat the past.

GATSBY

Cant repeat the past?

NICK

No.

GATSBY

Why of course you can. Of course 
you can. Youll see. I am going to 
fix things just the way there were 
before. Everythings been so... so 
confused since then...

NICK (V.O.)

He talked a lot about the past... 
As if he wanted to recover 
something...

GATSBY

If I could just get back to the 
start... If I could just get back 
to the start I could find it again.

NICK (V.O.)

Some vision of himself that he had 
put into loving Daisy...

NICK (V.O.)

Five years ago Gatsby found himself 
at Daisys house by colossal 
accident.

GATSBY (BY THE POOL)

I went to her house first with some 
of the other officers from Camp 
Taylor... Id never been in such a 
beautiful house before...

NICK (V.O.)

But his uniform his the truth. That 
he was a penniless young man with 
only that grand vision of himself.

Daisy, dont scamper.

(whispers)

DAISY MOM

Theres so many dashing young 
officers here, and from such 
illustrious familys...

GATSBY (BY THE POOL)

I always knew that I could climb... 
But I could only climb if I climbed 
alone.

GATSBY

I knew that, that when I kissed 
this girl, I would... be forever 
wed to her...

GATSBY

So I stopped. And I waited... I 
waited...

GATSBY (BY THE POOL)

I waited for a moment longer.

NICK (V.O.)

He knew that if he kissed this girl 
his mind would never again be free 
to romp like... the mind of God... 
That falling in love would change 
his destiny... forever.

GATSBY

And then I just let myself go. 

NICK (V.O.)

She blossomed for him like a 
flower...

NICK (V.O.)

And the incarnation was complete.

GATSBY

I knew it was a great mistake for a 
man like me to fall in love. A 
great mistake. Im only 32... I 
might still be a great man if I 
could only forget that I once lost 
Daisy. But my life, old sport, my 
life has got to be like this...

GATSBY (CONTD)
Its got to keep going up.

GATSBY (CONTD)

She has to go to Tom and tell him 
she never loved him... I need to 
give her more time. I just need to 
give her more time...

GATSBY (CONTD)

Dont worry old sport, dont worry. 
I can protect her here. Good night 
old sport...

GATSBY (CONTD)

Youre wrong about the past, old 
sport...! 

GATSBY (CONTD)

Youre wrong.

NICK (READS)

There had been music from my 
neighbors all summer. In his blue 
gardens, men and girls came and 
went like moths among the 
whisperings and the laughter and 
the stars...

NICK (CONTD)

Laughter... No... No... Among the 
whisperings and the champagne and 
the stars...

(MORE)

NICK (CONTD)

(thats the one)

But after Tom and Daisy visit...

NICK (V.O.)

There were no more parties... 

NICK (V.O.)

Gatsbys lights went out one by 
one.

NICK (V.O.)

Daisy visited discreetly. But...

NICK (V.O.)

The very same fame that had once 
been a source of satisfaction to 
Jay Gatsby, became... a threat.

DAISY

I dont want to go home. 

GATSBY

Then dont.

GATSBY (O.S.)

Ive been meaning to call you up. 
Im sorry, Ive been... so busy.

NICK (O.S.)
Is everything alright?

GATSBY 

Yes... Daisy and I are very much in 
love.

NICK (O.S.)

I hear you fired all your servants?

GATSBY 

Daisy comes over sometimes in the 
afternoons and I wanted some people 
who wouldnt gossip... until we 
decided what were going to do... 
You see these two towns are pretty 
close together. And it gets in the 
papers... You understand?

(clarifies)

Theyre some people Wolfsheim 
wanted to do something for. 

GATSBY (CONTD)

Whats the difference as long as 
they can cook and make beds...?

GATSBY

(excited)

Nick... Daisys ready. Shes ready. 
But theres just one thing. Shes 
requested that you and Miss Baker 
be there, at lunch tomorrow, at her 
house... Will you come, old sport?

(an admission)

Daisy needs you. I... We need you. 
Will you come old sport?

TOM

You know, I read somewhere that the 
sun's getting hotter every year...

TOM (CONTD)

Or wait a minute; it's the 
opposite...

TOM (CONTD)

The sun is getting colder every 
year...

TOM (CONTD)

How Id like to be out on that bay 
today. 

GATSBY

Im right across from you. 

(points)
Right there.

TOM

(unimpressed)

So you are. 

GATSBY

Every night I can see that light at 
the end of your dock, blinking. 

TOM

What light?

GATSBY

You see, Mr. Buchanan, I wanted to 
be close-- Daisy and I--

DAISY

(on the verge of tears)

It's so hot...

DAISY (CONTD)
Everything's so confused.

DAISY (CONTD)

What'll we do with ourselves this 
afternoon...? And the day after 
that...

(she snaps it again)

...and for the next thirty years? 

(turns suddenly)

Lets all go to town! Who wants to 
go to town?

TOM

Town!? Women... They get these 
notions...

GATSBY

(whispers)

Daisy... 

DAISY

(as if they are alone)

You look so cool. You always look 
so cool, like the advertisement of 
the man... in Times Square...

DAISY (CONTD)

The man in the cool, beautiful, 
shirts.

NICK (V.O.)

She had told Gatsby that she loved 
him - and Tom had seen...

TOM

Lets go to town! Im perfectly 
willing...! Thats a marvelous 
idea! Henri! Have the car brought 
around immediately!

DAISY

Just like that? Cant anyone at 
least have a cigarette?

TOM 

Weve smoked all through lunch. 

DAISY

Oh, let's have fun. It's too hot to 
fuss.

TOM

It was your great idea Daisy. Why 
dont we!? Well all go to town!

DAISY

Ive changed my mind... 

(teases)

You brute.

TOM

(a dangerous intensity)

Youve got me all excited, and now 
you dont want to go? Well get a 
great big room at the Plaza, a cold 
bucket of ice, and some whiskey... 
It will be fun.

DAISY

Fine. Have it your own way, Tom... 
Come on, Jordan.

TOM

Will you join us, Mr. Gatsby?

TOM (CONTD)

Henri! Get some whiskey! Two 
bottles, wrapped in a towel.

TOM

Mr. Gatsby! Would you be good 
enough to take my coupe? And Ill 
drive everyone else in your circus 
wagon.

GATSBY

I dont think theres much gas, old 
sport.

TOM

(looks at the gauge)

Plenty of gas. And if we run out, 
then well stop at a drug store.
I hear you can buy anything at a 
drug store nowadays...

(savagely eyes Gatsby)

Isnt that right, Mr. Gatsby?

DAISY

You take Nick and Jordan, Tom!

DAISY (CONTD)

Well meet you at the Plaza! Ill 
be the man on the corner smoking 
two cigarettes...

TOM

You think I'm pretty dumb, don't 
you? But I have a-- an almost 
second sight, sometimes, that tells 
me what to do. And Ive made a 
small investigation of this fellow. 

JORDAN

(condescending)

And you found he was an Oxford man?

TOM

Oxford, New Mexico! He wears a pink 
suit for Christ's sake!

JORDAN (O.C.)

(mocking)

Were almost out of gas Tom...

TOM

Wilson! Wilson! What are you 
waiting for!? Lets have some 
gas...

(gets out)

Do I have to do it myself?

WILSON 

Im sick. Im all run down. I need 
money bad... My wife and I want to 
go West.

TOM

Your wife does...?

NICK (V.O.)

Tom was feeling the hot whips of 
panic. His mistress and wife, an 
hour ago so secure, were both 
slipping from his control...

WILSON

I just got wised-up to something 
funny the last two days. She's 
goin whether she wants to or not. 

TOM

What do I owe you!?

WILSON

Dollar twenty.

TOM

You can have the car! I'll send it 
around tomorrow!

TOM 

Thats enough...

DAISY

Open another window.

NICK

There aren't any more.

DAISY

Then telephone for an axe...

TOM

Forget about the heat. You make it 
worse by crabbing about it.

GATSBY

Why not let her alone, old sport? 

TOM

That's a great expression of yours, 
isn't it?

GATSBY

What is?

TOM

'Old sport'. Where'd you pick it 
up?

DAISY

Now see here, Tom; if you're going 
to make personal remarks I won't 
stay here one minute. 

TOM

Mr. Gatsby, I understand you're an 
Oxford man.

GATSBY
No, not exactly. 

TOM

Oh yes, I understand you went to 
Oxford.

GATSBY

Yes - I went there.

TOM

Sure; the man in the pink suit went 
to Oxford!

DAISY

Tom...!

GATSBY

(slow, intense)

I told you I went there.

TOM

I heard you, but I'd like to know 
when.

GATSBY

Youd like to know when....? It was 
in nineteen-nineteen, I only stayed 
five months. That's why I can't 
exactly call myself an Oxford man.

GATSBY (CONTD)

You see, it was an opportunity they 
gave to some of the officers who 
actually fought in the war. 

NICK (V.O.)

I wanted to get up and slap Gatsby 
on the back.

DAISY

I'll make you a drink Tom, then you 
won't seem so stupid to yourself... 

TOM

Wait a minute, I want to ask Mr. 
Gatsby one more question.

GATSBY

Go on. Please Mr. Buchanan, go on.

TOM

What kind of a row are you trying 
to cause in my house anyhow?

DAISY

He isn't causing a row; you're 
causing a row. Please have a little 
self-control!

TOM

Self-control! I suppose the latest 
thing is to sit back and let Mr. 
Nobody from Nowhere make love to 
your wife? Well, if that's the idea 
you can count me out... See, 
nowadays people begin by sneering 
at family life and family 
institutions and next you know 
they'll throw everything overboard 
and well have intermarriage 
between black and white!

Were all white here, Tom.

JORDAN

GATSBY

Your wife doesn't love you. She's 
never loved you. She loves me!

TOM

You must be crazy.

GATSBY

No, old sport. See, she never loved 
you... She only married you because 
I was poor and she was tired of 
waiting. It was a terrible, 
terrible mistake, but in her heart 
she never loved anyone but me!

JORDAN

We should go...

GATSBY

Daisy and I have nothing to hide...

DAISY

Jay lets go, please...!

TOM

Sit down Daisy!

GATSBY
(reassuring)

Yes, Daisy, please sit down.

TOM

What's been going on? I want to 
hear all about it.

GATSBY

I just told you what's been going 
on; its been going on for five 
years...!

TOM

You've been seeing him for five 
years?

GATSBY

Not seeing. No, we couldn't; but 
both of us loved each other all 
that time, old sport, and you 
didn't know. I used to laugh 
sometimes, to think that you didn't 
know...

TOM

Oh - that's all; you're crazy! I 
can't speak about what happened 
five years ago, because I didn't 
know Daisy then - but I'll be 
damned if I see how you got within 
a mile of her unless you brought 
the groceries to the back door. But 
all the rest of that's a god-damned 
lie. Daisy loved me when she 
married me and she loves me now.

GATSBY

No...

TOM

She does, though... And what's 
more, I love Daisy too. Once in a 
while I go off on a spree, but I 
always come back, and in my heart I 
love her all the time...

DAISY

Youre revolting...

DAISY (CONTD)

Do you know why we left Chicago...? 
I'm surprised they didn't treat you 
to the story of that little spree.

GATSBY

That's all over now. Just tell him 
the truth, that you never loved 
him; and all this... all this pain 
will be wiped out forever.

DAISY

Why, how could I love him, 
possibly?

GATSBY

You never loved him.

DAISY

I never loved him.

GATSBY

Thats right...

TOM

Not at Kapiolani?

DAISY

No.

TOM

(a husky tenderness)

Not that day I carried you down 
from the Punch Bowl to keep your 
shoes dry...? Daisy? Never?

DAISY

Please dont.

TOM

Daisy...

DAISY

There, Jay.

DAISY (CONTD)

You want too much! I love you now; 
isn't that enough? I can't help 
what's past.

(begins to sob)

I did love him once; but I loved 
you too.

GATSBY

(shocked, uncomprehending)

You loved me too?

TOM

(savage)

Even that's a lie. She didn't know 
you were alive. There are things 
between Daisy and me that you'll 
never know, things that neither of 
us can ever forget.

GATSBY

I want to speak to Daisy alone. 
She's all excited now... 

DAISY

Even alone I can't say I never 
loved Tom. It wouldn't be true.

TOM

Of course it wouldn't.

DAISY

As if it mattered to you.

TOM

Of course it matters. I'm going to 
take better care of you from now 
on.

GATSBY

You're not taking care of her any 
more! Daisy's leaving you.

TOM

Nonsense.

DAISY

(with visible effort)

I am, though.

TOM

She's not leaving me; and certainly 
not for a common swindler!

TOM (CONTD)

Mr. Gatsby, who exactly are you 
anyhow? You see, I have made a 
small investigation into your 
affairs... You're one of Meyer 
Wolfsheims bunch. 

TOM (CONTD)

See, he and this Wolfsheim bought 
up a lot of 'drug stores' and sold 
bootlegged alcohol over the 
counter!

GATSBY 

What about it, old sport?

TOM

Dont call me old sport! This 
drug store business is just small 
change compared to the bonds stunt 
you and Wolfsheim have got going on 
now.

GATSBY

Well your friend Walter Chase isnt 
too proud to come in on it.

TOM

Ive been giving that some thought. 
How does a reputable banker like 
Walter Chase find himself up to his 
eyeballs in debt to a little kike 
like Wolfsheim?

GATSBY

Its called greed, old sport.

TOM

Thats right; youve got half of 
Wall Street out there swilling your 
free booze at that fun park every 
weekend...

(to Nick)

Im surprised he hasnt tried to 
drag you in...

TOM (CONTD)

My God, he has...

GATSBY

Hes got nothing to do with--

TOM

With your little racket...

(to Daisy)

Daisy... Cant you see who this guy 
is? With his house and his parties 
and his fancy clothes; hes just a 
front for Wolfsheim, a gangster, to 
get his claws into respectable folk 
like Walter...! 

GATSBY

(a vicious sneer)

The only respectable thing about 
you, old sport, is your money, 
thats it, and now Ive just as 
much as you; so that means were 
equal!!

TOM

Oh no, no, were different; I am, 

(gesturing at Nick and 
Jordan)

They are...

(now at Daisy)

She is; 

(MORE)

TOM (CONT'D)

were all different from you - we 
were born different, its in our 
blood, and nothing you do, or say, 
or steal or dream up, can ever 
change that... And a girl like 
Daisy will never...!

GATSBY

SHUT UP! SHUT UP! SHUTTT UP!!!!

NICK (V.O)

Gatsby looked, in that moment... as 
if he had killed a man.

TOM

Thats right Mr. Gatsby, show us 
those fine Oxford manners...

DAISY 

My sincerest apologies. I... I seem 
to have lost my temper. 

GATSBY

Daisy darling... None of this has 
any consequence. Dont listen to 
him Daisy.

GATSBY (CONTD)

Were going back to Louisville to 
be married. Then were going to 
live together in our house; its--

NICK (V.O.)

He began talking excitedly, denying 
everything... But with every word 
Daisy was drawing further and 
further into herself, until only 
the dead dream fought on...

DAISY

Please Tom; I can't stand this 
anymore!

TOM

You two start on home... 

(to Gatsby)

In Mr. Gatsby's car.

TOM (CONTD)

Go on. He won't annoy you. I think 
he realizes that his little 
flirtation... is over.

GATSBY

Daisy...!

TOM

Want any of this? Jordan? Nick? 
Nick?

What?

Want any?

NICK

TOM

NICK

No... I just remembered - today's 
my birthday. Im thirty.

TOM

Happy birthday...

NICK (V.O.)

Thirty - the promise of a decade of 
loneliness...

NICK (V.O.)

The formidable stroke of thirty 
died away, as Gatsby and Daisy 
drove on through the cooling 
twilight, towards death...

WILSON

God knows everything you've been 
doing!

WILSON (CONTD)

You might fool me but you can't 
fool God! 

WILSON (CONTD)

God sees everything!

MYRTLE

(thinking its Tom)

Hes here...

MYRTLE

Stop, Tom, please, stop!

GATSBY

No...!

TOM

Wreck...! Good. Wilson will have a 
little business at last... Lets 
take a look..

JORDAN

Must we?

TOM

Just a look.

WILSON

O, my Ga-od! O, my Ga-od! 

POLICEMAN

(to Tom)

Sir. Sir, Im gonna have to ask you 
to step away--

TOM
Get off me...!

(regains his composure)

Im fine. Im fine.

POLICEMAN

You knew her?

TOM

(a long pause)
No... Not really...

POLICEMAN

Well then I have to ask you to step 
back.

TOM

What happened...?

POLICEMAN

She ran out inna road. Son-of-a-
bitch didn't even stopus car.

WELL-DRESSED MAN

I saw it! It was a yellow car; big 
yellow car.

MICHAELIS

Yeah, a big yellow duezy; custom 
job.

WILSON

You don't have to tell me what kind 
of car it was! I know what kind of 
car it was!

TOM

(a soothing gruffness)

Pull yourself together...

TOM

Listen, I just got here from New 
York. I was bringing you the coupe. 
That yellow car wasn't mine, do you 
hear? I haven't seen it all 
afternoon.

POLICEMAN

What color's your car?

TOM

Blue, a coupe; we've come straight 
from New York.

MICHAELIS

Yeah, they just stopped...

POLICEMAN

Alright... Blue.

WILSON

Who owns the yella car...?

TOM

(a tiny pause)

Fella named Gatsby; hes a crook, 
George. Gives those parties the 
papers are always talking about...

WILSON

Maybe he was the one foolin with 
Myrtle; maybe thats why he killed 
her...?

TOM

Yeah. Maybe. Guy like that, who 
knows...

WILSON

Oh, Ga-od! Oh, my Ga-od!

TOM

Gatsby. Something outta be done 
about a fella like that. Hell 
pay... Oh, hell pay...

TOM

The goddamn coward didn't even stop 
his car...

TOM (CONTD)

You gonna defend him now, huh? 

TOM

I'll telephone for a taxi, Nick. 
Come in and have some supper while 
you wait... 

NICK

No thanks. I'll wait outside.

TOM

What is the matter with you? 

JORDAN

Won't you come in, Nick?

NICK

No... thanks.

JORDAN

It's only half past nine...

NICK

No. I think Ive had enough... Of 
everyone.

GATSBY

Hello old sport...

NICK

What are you doing!?

GATSBY

Just sitting here...

NICK

Yes, I can see that.

GATSBY

Did you see any trouble out on the 
road?

NICK

Trouble!? That woman you ran down 
is dead Jay!

GATSBY

I thought so... I told Daisy I 
thoughts so--

NICK

Daisy? Do you hear yourself--

GATSBY

Its better that the shock should 
come all at once--

NICK

Whats wrong with you!? How could 
you!?

GATSBY

Please... Keep your voice down, old 
sport.

NICK

Tom was right! Youre nothing but a 
goddamn coward!

GATSBY
(threatening)

Keep your voice down... There. Was. 
No. Point. In. Stopping. 

NICK

NO POINT!?

GATSBY

It, it killed her instantly. I--

NICK

Yes, I was there. I saw! It ripped 
her open!

GATSBY

I understand-- It was... my fault. 
This woman just rushed out, as if 
she wanted to speak to us... It all 
happened so quickly. She-- I... 
tried-- to turn the wheel.

NICK

She?

NICK (CONTD)

It was Daisy?

GATSBY

You see, after we left New York, 
she was very nervous. She thought 
driving would steady her. But this 
woman, she just rushed out at us.

GATSBY (CONTD)

It all happened so quickly. It 
wasnt her fault... 

(MORE)

GATSBY (CONTD)

It was my fault. I should have 
taken the wheel... 

(intense)

No one must know. Promise me. No 
one. Promise me. 

NICK

Jay-- You shouldnt be here. You 
should get out of here.

GATSBY

No. No. No. Im going to wait. Ill 
wait all night if necessary. You 
see, Daisys locked herself in her 
room, and shes going to turn her 
light off and on again if he tries 
to bother her about that 
unpleasantness this afternoon. If 
he tries ANY brutality whatsoever--

NICK

Tom won't touch her. Hes not even 
thinking about her...

GATSBY

Oh, I don't trust him, old sport. I 
dont trust him.

NICK

Alright. Alright... You wait here. 
Ill see if theres any commotion.

GATSBY

Would you do that for me? Thank 
you. Thank you, old sport.

TOM

Its going to be all right...

NICK

Jay? Everything alright...?

GATSBY

Oh, hello, old sport. Yes, yes, 
everythings just fine... About 
four o'clock she came to the 
window; she stood there... Then, 
well, she turned out the light... 
So...

(beckons to the car)

Give me a hand will you old sport?

NICK (V.O.)

I should have told him what I had 
just seen. But all I could manage 
was...

NICK

Jay... You oughtta go away.

NICK (CONTD)

Tonight. Theyll trace your car.

GATSBY

(as if Nick is crazy)

Go away? I cant leave now. Not 
tonight.

NICK

Do you understand that a woman has 
been killed--?

GATSBY

Daisys going to call in the 
morning. Then well make plans, to 
go away together.

NICK

But Jay she--

GATSBY

She just needs time to think...

(he continues, calm)

Shell call. In the morning. She 
just needs time to think.

NICK

Jay--

GATSBY

She just needs to think. Shes 
going to call in the morning. 

GATSBY (CONTD)

Wait up with me? The suns almost 
up...

NICK (V.O.)

That was the night he finally told 
me the truth. All of it.

You know, I thought for awhile I 
had a lot of things... But the 
truth is... Im empty. 

GATSBY

(MORE)

GATSBY (CONT'D)

I suppose thats why I make things 
up about myself... But Ive wanted 
to tell you the whole story for a 
long time... You see. I grew up, 
terribly, terribly poor, old sport. 
My folks were, well-- 

NICK (V.O.)

He revealed his humble beginnings, 
his transformative voyage with Dan 
Cody, the war, Oxford, and how hed 
joined Wolfsheim in the business...

NICK (V.O.)

It was also that night that I 
became aware of Gatsbys... 
extraordinary gift for hope.

GATSBY

...I can't describe to you how 
surprised I was to find out that I 
loved her, old sport. And that she 
loved me too. 

NICK (V.O.)

A gift that I have never found in 
any other person...

GATSBY

I never realized just how 
extraordinary a nice girl could be.

NICK (V.O.)

And which it is not likely I shall 
ever find again.

GATSBY

I thought out my life with Daisy in 
it, trying to figure out how we 
could marry and struggle along on 
so many dollars a month...

NICK

What was in the letter?

GATSBY

The truth, the reason why after the 
war, I hadnt been able to return--

GATSBY (O.C.) (CONTD)

I asked her to wait until Id made 
something of myself. But-- She was 
young, there was so much pressure.

GATSBY (CONTD)

You see, I felt married to her... 
That was all.

NICK (V.O.)

It had all been for her. The house 
the parties, everything.

WILSON

God sees everything.

HERZOG

Mr. Gatsby sir, excuse me, Chicago 
calling sir.

GATSBY

Now now. Keep it open. For a 
personal call...

HERZOG

A personal call? Of course.

GARDENER

I'm going to drain the pool today, 
Mr. Gatsby.

GATSBY

Not today. Its so beautiful.

(to Nick)

You know, old sport, I've never 
used that pool all summer?

GATSBY (CONTD)

Lets go for a swim. Ill have the 
phone transferred to the pool...

NICK

Jay, Ive got to go. I have to 
work. 

GATSBY

I understand... Well, Ill walk you 
out.

NICK

I'll call you up.

GATSBY

Do, old sport, please do.

(a thought)

I suppose Daisy'll call too.

NICK

I suppose so... Well... Goodbye.

NICK (CONTD)

They're a rotten crowd! You're 
worth the whole damn bunch put 
together!

NICK (V.O.)

I was always glad I said that... It 
was the only compliment I ever paid 
him. 

NICK (V.O.)

That morning, Wall Street boomed, 
its usual golden roar... But I 
wasnt worth a decent stroke of 
work. I waited for Gatsby to call 
with news...

NICK (V.O.)

While he waited for Daisy...

GATSBY

Daisy...

NICK (V.O.)

After all these years, I remember 
the rest of that day, and that 
night and the next day as an 
endless drill...

NICK (V.O.)

...of police and photographers and 
tabloid reporters. 

(MORE)

NICK (V.O.) (CONT'D)

The headlines were a nightmare... 
They pinned everything on Gatsby.

NICK (V.O.)

The affair with Myrtle...

NICK (V.O.)

The hit and run...

NICK (V.O.)

Everything.

NICK (V.O.)

And there was nothing I could say 
except the one unutterable fact 
that none of it was true...

DAISY

(explains to Pammy)

Daddys taking care of his two 
favorite girls...

PAMMY

But where are we going?

DAISY

Just for a little trip. Just you, 
me, and daddy...

TOM
(tenderly)

We should go.

HENRI

Buchanan residence.

NICK

May I speak to Mrs. Buchanan? Its 
Mr. Carraway, her cousin...

HENRI (O.S.)

Madame is not available.

NICK 

Well, when you see her, will you 
tell her, the funerals tomorrow?

HENRI

Im sorry, but... They have gone 
away.

NICK (O.S.)

Gone away...? Do you know when 
theyll be back.

HENRI

No.

NICK

Please, I know she would want to be 
there. If you could just get a 
message to her--

HENRI (O.S.)

I have no further information 
monsieur. Au revoir.

NICK (O.S.)

Hello...? Hello!?

NICK (V.O.)

They were careless people, Tom and 
Daisy. They smashed up things and 
people and then retreated back into 
their money and their vast 
carelessness...

NICK

GET OUT! ALL OF YOU OUT! GET 
OUT...!!!

NICK (V.O.)

I rang, I wrote, I implored... 

NICK (V.O.)

But not a single one of the 
sparkling hundreds who had enjoyed 
his hospitality all summer, 
attended the funeral... 

NICK (V.O.)

And from Daisy, not even a flower. 

NICK (V.O.)

I was all he had; the only one who 
cared... 

NICK (V.O.)

After Gatsby's death, New York was 
haunted for me...

NICK (V.O.)

That city... My once golden... 
shimmering mirage, now made me 
sick. 

NICK (V.O.)

On my last night in New York... I 
returned to that huge, incoherent 
house once more.

NICK (V.O.)

Wolfsheims 'associates' had 
cleaned the place out...

JORDAN 

He threw all those parties hoping 
she would wander in one night...

NICK 

Its like an amusement park...

DAISY

But how do you live her all alone?

GATSBY

She makes it look so splendid, 
dont you think, old sport?

DAISY

Music! And then we can dance all 
night...

GATSBY

Will you come old sport? We... need 
you.

DAISY

I wish it could always be like 
this...

GATSBY

It will be...

NICK (V.O.)

I remembered how we had all come to 
Gatsbys, and guessed at his 
corruption... While he had stood 
before us concealing an 
incorruptible dream...

DAISY

Its perfect... From your perfect, 
irresistible imagination.

NICK (V.O.)

The moon rose higher... And as I 
stood there, brooding on the old, 
unknown world, I thought of 
Gatsby's wonder when he first 
picked out the green light at the 
end of Daisy's dock.  

NICK (V.O.)

He had come such a long way...

NICK (V.O.)

And his dream must have seemed so 
close that he could hardly fail to 
grasp it.

NICK (V.O.)

He did not know that it was already 
behind him...

NICK (V.O.)

Gatsby believed in the green light, 
the orgastic future that year by 
year, recedes before us...

NICK (V.O.)

It eluded us then, but thats no 
matter - tomorrow we will run 
faster...

NICK (V.O.)

Stretch out our arms farther... And 
one fine morning... 

NICK (V.O.)

So we beat on, boats against the 
current, borne back ceaselessly, 
into the past.

